- [Instructor] The Java project structure for Apache Maven
is one of those areas that tends to be polarizing
among Java developers.
While Maven will argue that
the file structure requirements are in place
on purpose to help you build your code
following best practices,
there are arguments against it in the community.
While some call this a pain point,
I would argue on the side of Apache
that this is a great separation.
But as I alluded to, it is a source of complaints
when it comes to Apache Maven.
Consider however that this structure cleanly separates
code from the resources that the project needs to operate.
Things like property files, logging instructions,
and other non-Java code files.
It also separates live code from test code,
which makes your code easier to navigate
than say something like Go where the test
lives right next to the files they are testing.
This separation makes it infinitely easier
to read code versus tests
and if you maintain package structure,
finding tests isn't hard at all.
Finally, while some people may complain
once they embrace it and see the elegance in the structure,
it becomes the only way to separate code
when writing software
and I find myself missing the structure
when I write code in say Go or Python.
So now, we will look at the concrete structure of a project.
We will start with the root directory.
In this directory we have another directory called source,
spelled out S-R-C.
This directory houses all of the code and resources
for the project.
At the same level as SRC we have the pom.xml file.
By the end of this course,
you will be very familiar with this file.
Now, in the SRC folder
we have two folders that are identical underneath.
One is main and one is test.
Main contains the runtime code
and test, as you might imagine, contains your test code.
Now, it is important to note that some plugins in Maven
add other folders to this level,
but that's beyond the scope of this course.
Now, underneath main and test
the structures are identical.
There's a Java folder for your source code
and a resources folder for, as you guessed it,
your resources.
Throughout this course we will reference this file structure
several times, as this is how all Maven projects start.